# About iBikri

This is a simple Classified Ads application

## Features

admin url = .../administrator, username: root, password: root1234

Guests 
- View
- Search Advertisements
- Register 
- Signup.
- Print
	  
Users 
- Post Advertisements
- Contact other users, and chat
- report ad
- set ad as favourite
- purchase account balance
- promote ad
- change basic account settings, change password etc..
	  
Administrator
- moderate users (ban unban)
- moderate posts  (publish unpublish)
- confim payments
- read reports/complains
	 
Basic Site Features
- Change Language
	  

default database name db_ibikri	  
Database with full Category, Subcategory, all Divisions and Districts are added in database in both languages. It is important to keep those ids for the homepage map to work.

Database provided also includes sample post data generated by laravel faker.
	  
	  
	  
## OpenSource
	  
iBikri platform is open-sourced and licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

If anyone would like to use this project in their own, they can do so as long as they provide original author credit.



## On Github

ibikri project is on github https://github.com/shababhsiddique/ibikri-shabab.git.

If you wish to get the latest version of the project. install from github. The process of installation is follows-


## How to Install

1) git clone https://github.com/shababhsiddique/ibikri-shabab.git (on remote machine)

2) open your project folder in cmd or powershell

3) Install Composer

        composer install

   this will create 'vendor' folder and download all packages, NOTE: you need composer installed

4) Create and edit .env file (use .env.example as base)
   for windows users use powershell to 

        cp .env.example .env

   to create a copy

5) Generate Key

        php artisan key:generate
    
   will create the unique application key for the .env file

For Database:

6) Create database . eg. db_ibikri

7) run migration

        php artisan migrate

        or

        php artisan migrate:fresh 

   if you already have database and want to overwrite)

8) Seed database        
       
	to generate the categories, subcategories, divisions and districts in both language
	
		php artisan db:seed
		
	to generate sample data, 100 fake users, 3000 fake posts and 150 promoted(top ads) run the following seeder,
        you can change the number of fake data by editing database/seeds/PostsSeeder.php
	
		php artisan db:seed --class=PostsSeeder

		

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to this project. Fork it and keep me posted with pull requests.

## Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability within this ibikri application, please submit an [Issue](https://github.com/shababhsiddique/ibikri-shabab/issues).

If you discover a security vulnerability within Laravel, please send an e-mail to Taylor Otwell via [taylor@laravel.com](mailto:taylor@laravel.com). All security vulnerabilities will be promptly addressed.

## License

iBikri platform is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

The Laravel framework is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
